# NBA’s Kanter: I hope to don Turkish national jersey again

*Orhan Akkurt 2016.02.01*

<div class="pNewsDetailMainContent ctx_content" itemprop="articleBody">
 <p>
  <strong>
   Twenty-four-year-old
   <a class="news-detail-tag-link" href="http://web.archive.org/web/20160213071139/http://www.todayszaman.com/index/enes-kanter" title="Enes Kanter, Enes Kanter news, enes kanter news, enes kanter latest newsies">
    Enes Kanter
   </a>
   is from a family in Van, Turkey.
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  We had the chance to speak with him on a whole range of topics, from his life in the
  <a class="news-detail-tag-link" href="http://web.archive.org/web/20160213071139/http://www.todayszaman.com/index/nba" title="NBA, NBA news, nba news, nba latest newsies">
   NBA
  </a>
  to how he got here, his education, his family and his perspectives on various subjects. Kanter, who plays in the NBA for Oklahoma City Thunder, set aside two days to talk with us despite his tight schedule. When we arrived, his assistant met us and took us to Kanter's home, where we found the young forward player listening to a program about the Quran on TV. Kanter lives in the north of Oklahoma City, in a lovely two-story home with five bedrooms and a pool. He shares this home with two university students and his assistant. This is because he didn't want to live alone in such a large house. The students who live with him, in the meantime, are aware of the advantages they have in living with an NBA star. As for Kanter, aside from his actual matches and training times, he spends as much time thinking about and interacting with both American and Turkish societies as he can.
 </p>
 <p>
  In spending two full days with Kanter, we naturally are a part of the activities in which he engages during this time. On a day when he doesn't have a match, for example, he might participate in three different activities. After his morning training, he comes home to rest awhile, but then joins in a bowling activity organized by a charity foundation that helps cheer up children with serious illnesses. Here, Kanter not only bowls with these children, but then hands out photographs and poses for photos with people. After this, he heads over to a private shoot for us in Oklahoma City, at the Chasepeake Arena where the Thunder play their matches.
 </p>
 <p>
  After this, we head home to get something to eat. Then later, we join up with Kanter's teammate Serge Ibaka at a charity cocktail reception at the Cowboy Museum. The final activity on this busy day is a birthday party for his neighbor's young daughter. When the girl sees Kanter, she's so excited that she leaps into his arms to hug him. The other children at the party ask Kanter a series of questions: everything from his shoe size to whether or not he has a girlfriend. Kanter tries to answer all these questions as best he can, and then plays ping-pong with the children. The birthday girl is clearly thrilled to be hosting Kanter for the first time in her home. Notably, Kanter appears to have great relations with all his neighbors.
 </p>
 <p>
  After his day's activities are done, Kanter doesn't  disappear into his bedroom, instead he chooses to hang out with his housemates in the living room. He eats a plate of leftover pasta from the night before. We're actually pretty surprised to see that Kanter chose to live with people, rather than living alone, as is often the custom in America after a certain age. This young star is different, though; he even cooks from time to time, and is known to do his own dishes when necessary. The sense of unity in the home is apparent; he and his housemates even pray together.
 </p>
 <p>
  Over the course of our two days with Kanter, we also see that he makes relationships quite easily, and has an open dialogue with most people. He is also very popular with his teammates; we notice in particular his friendship with NBA player Russell Westbrook. I also noticed that Kanter is very careful about time, arriving punctually or even early to most events.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   Let's start with your life story. You have an interesting story, one that stretches from Zurich to Van to the US…
  </strong>
  <br>
   <br>
    I was born in Switzerland. When I was just 11 months old, we moved from Zurich to Van because of my father's work; he's an academic. Until the seventh grade, I studied at Serhat College. I didn't really know what
    <a class="news-detail-tag-link" href="http://web.archive.org/web/20160213071139/http://www.todayszaman.com/index/basketball" title="basketball, basketball news, basketball news, basketball latest newsies">
     basketball
    </a>
    was. As far as sports are concerned, I began with football. Like everyone else, I really wanted to be a football player when I grew up. I would head over to the edge of Van Lake and try to strengthen myself by kicking at the waves. Then, my sports teacher, Fatih Karalı, invited me to play on the school's basketball team. My mother told me: “Son, sit and study your lessons. Do you really believe that you, out of millions, are going to be a professional basketball player?”
    <br>
     <br>
      <strong>
       What did your father say?
      </strong>
     </br>
    </br>
   </br>
  </br>
 </p>
 <p>
  He used to say to me, “My son, you're getting taller and taller, but what of it?” One day, in the schoolyard, my father -- who's also tall like me -- played a one-on-one match. When I beat him, he began to believe in my skill.
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <strong>
   So when did you decide to really become a basketball player?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  One day I was watching a Turkish National Basketball match. When Turkey won that match, I said to myself, “I'm going to be a basketball player.”
  <br/>
  Of course, I knew even then this wouldn't be easy. I tried to play with a plastic ball. In the beginning, my shots wouldn't even graze the rim of the hoop. We used to make our own basketball hoops using street signs. Then, when I was 12, I went to the “12 Giant Men Basketball Course” in Van. At the time, my father was teaching in Zonguldak. He met someone there. One day, when he returned to Van, he said, “I am going to bring you to a sports club in Ankara.” When I finally went to Ankara, in the seventh grade, I felt like I had left the village and arrived in a city. Someone from that club brought us to their home. But my father didn't like what he saw there, so we passed up on that chance. We found a school in Demetevler. I said I played basketball. They tested me out, and liked what they saw. Then they brought me to the Samanyolu College, and had me do some lay-ups. In fact, my brother, who is three years younger, was with us. They told him to go practice wrestling. My brother cried a lot at that. On the second day at Samanyolu, they got me a license. I played my first match against Keçiören Municipality. The coach wanted me to enter the match. Without really knowing what to do, I headed straight for the center of the court. But they immediately warned me. In that match, I made nine points, and picked up 12 rebounds.
 </p>
 <p>
  I practiced basketball constantly with my friend Ali. I'll never forget those days. I used to play matches in my ripped shoes.
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <strong>
   Then...
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  Later, my father brought me to İstanbul, to Ülkerspor. I practiced with them and they liked what they saw. But that year my mother wouldn't let me go. She wanted me to stay at Samanyolu. My teacher would order me things from the school's snack room; I had fooled him and stayed [laughing]. But seriously, it's good that I stayed, in that as a boarder at that school, I got so much attention from the older kids and teachers. When the time finally came to head to Ülker, it had joined with the Fenerbahçe club.
 </p>
 <p>
  When I first went to the facilities, in Dereağzı [in Aydın province], I didn't like them at all. I said to myself “I can't play here!” I remember that well. Aydın Örs came to watch our training sessions. I used to drink pekmez [molasses] syrup, and then head to the matches. Anyway, then I was chosen for the Under-16 national team. I spent my first year in İstanbul with Fenerbahçe. Thanks to my performance, I was chosen as Turkey's most valuable player. I continued studying at Fenerbahçe College. And then, my family came to İstanbul to support me. Some time after that, I began practicing with the Fenerbahçe “A” team.
  <br/>
  <br/>
  And then I began getting taller still. I played in lots of positions. But my knees began to hurt. I went to see the doctor, who told me they had to change the structure of my knees. This would mean not playing for some 1.5 years. I was playing in both the Euroleague and the Turkey League with Fenerbahçe. I was really busy. My knees just couldn't take it anymore, and they reacted badly. But even though I was playing for Fenerbahçe College, they couldn't help me. So I left and went to play for Bostanci Doğa College. Some of my teammates even came with me. Doğa College then became world champions. Before my knees began to hurt, my manager said, “Come and play in America and study at the same time.” It became known on the team that I was supposedly headed to America. They said to me, “We'll say you were already paid here, and you won't be able to play in America.” [In America, if you are playing in high school or university leagues, you cannot have previously been a professional.] So I decided not to go. I returned after being injured. Then Fenerbahçe offered me money to come and play. They were offering TL 1 million, but I didn't take it. They didn't want me to head to America either. Then they raised their offer to TL 6 million. I was resolute in my decision to go to America. One day on the court, Mirsad Türkcan took off his shoe on the court and threw it at me, yelling, “How can you go without telling me?”
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <strong>
   What else happened during this time?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  Director Mahmut Uslu called me over to Şükrü Saraçoğlu Stadium. He made some very attractive offers. He told me they'd name a salon after me. Then I was told that if I went, Aziz Yildirim would shut down the lower teams. But I had already decided. I really wanted to go, but there were so many barriers. When I finally got to America, the Turkish news was filled with negative stories about me. In 2009, I played in the Under-18 team, and then went to America. I headed for the Findlay Prep School in Las Vegas. There, I was to both study and play. I stayed there three weeks. I had an agreement with Nike, which meant that technically I was professional. And since I was professional, it meant I couldn't play at a high school. Then I went to West Virginia. I stayed there three weeks too. I heard the same thing there, that I couldn't play because I was technically a professional.
  <br/>
  <br/>
  Then I went to a high school in Los Angeles, but we didn't have a proper court. John Calipari, the coach for the University of Kentucky, came to Los Angeles, and convinced me. I worked for awhile in Chicago with Michael Jordan's private trainer. In the Nike Hoop Summit tournament, I made 34 points and picked up 13 rebounds. In 2008, I broke the record that had belonged to Dirk Nowitzki, for 33 points. There was a rumor going around at the time that I had received a $1 million offer from Fenerbahçe, but it wasn't true. In 2009, I made a contract with the University of Kentucky. There were legal battles I had to fight in court though, to prove I hadn't played professionally before.
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <strong>
   How did the legal battles end?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  Right around that time, Turgay Demirel, the head of the Turkey Basketball Federation (TBF), told me, out of fear of Aziz Yıldırım, to return to Turkey. But again, I had resolved to play in America. In the end though, the conclusion of the legal case was not in my favor. It was decided that I could definitely never play in any high school or university leagues of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) in the US. So this really saddened me. I really didn't know what I was going to do, and I got kind of depressed.
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <strong>
   So what did the university do when the court made that decision?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  They didn't want to see me go. They told me I could stay if I wanted to. But I wasn't even allowed to practice with the other players. Looking for solutions, they made me a student assistant coach. I wasn't able to play for a long time. My name was everywhere. There was so much ambiguity at this time; it was a tough time. But I stayed on my path. Anyway, then the NBA draft process began. I was picked by Utah Jazz, but I didn't want to go there. The fact I was chosen in the third round made people notice. The year Utah selected me, in 2011, there was a lock out in the NBA. Around that same time, Nihat İziç, the coach for the Turkish national basketball team, made a public statement about how "Enes is not ready for the NBA," or something along those lines. This really bothered me.
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <strong>
   Around that same time, Mehmet Okur was also playing for Utah, right?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  Yes. He gave me lots of help. He would take me in his Ferrari to get food. I spent some time with him. I guess I could say he acted like a big brother to me. Anyway, later, he left the team. But he did some great stuff on that team, and left some great impressions of Turkey behind when he left. Anyway, with 11 matches remaining in the 2012 season, I dislocated my shoulder and had to have an operation.
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <strong>
   How did that make you feel?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  I was really down. I started to pray more actually. I considered quitting basketball altogether around that time. Anyway, one day Mevlüt Çınar Bey came to visit me. I told him my thoughts about quitting basketball. He told me he didn't think it was a very good idea, and that I should reconsider. He convinced me. Around that time, I also went to visit Fethullah Gülen. After that visit, I felt relieved. I realized basketball could be a way for me to share my thoughts about my country and my values. But I wasn't that happy in Utah. After the Dallas match, I told them I wanted to switch teams, to be traded. That was also a tough period for me. Even though I had wanted to trade, no one said a thing and there was no movement on that front. With just a few hours left before the period of player trading was over, I was traded to Oklahoma. I also signed a very good contract.
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <strong>
   Let's go back to when you first got to America. How did that period go?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  My very first times were in Las Vegas and Chicago. Everyone seemed so different to me; I didn't understand anyone. And Turkey continued to get me down. There was news almost every day that was against me. But I never lost hope. I was always just focused on playing in the NBA. I used to keep little notes under my chair in Van that said, "My goal is the NBA."
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <strong>
   So, are you happy in Oklahoma City? What are your goals?
  </strong>
  <br/>
  <br/>
  One of the first things I noticed here was the level of professionalism, from relations with the team management to the way the system works in general. And, what's more, it's a more successful cadre of players here. Playing with this team is not only more satisfying, but it also always gives you a better performance on which you can build your future career. In terms of my goals… well, an NBA championship of course. But I don't know if that'll happen for us this year. We actually have a team that could do it. Let's just say “İnşallah.”
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   How are relations between you and your teammates and coach Billy Donovan?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  Very good. Neither my teammates here nor the fans have ever made me feel like I was from far away. As I said, it really is a team that is just so professional. It was extra special that they got the chance to play matches in Turkey last year. Now they all it and want to go back and visit.
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <strong>
   And what about player Russell Westbrook? What about your friendship with him?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  Russell is just so energetic. He has an unending source of energy about him. Even on the heaviest, most tiring of days, you'll still find him jumping around. And he is a very respected member of the team. The close relationships between teammates are reflected on the court I believe.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   Fans call you the ‘Fearless Turkish Warrior.'
  </strong>
  <br/>
  <br/>
  Yeah, that's their choice. I just play my game out there. When you fight as hard as you can and do your best, people call you good things. I guess that's the nickname they've decided on for now. I'm pretty new here, though. Maybe if I stay for a while in Oklahoma, they'll come up with something new. But, of course, what's really important is to actually deserve such a nickname through one's performance.
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <strong>
   You've only been playing for a little while, but your statistics are already very good. How does this fact influence your performance?
  </strong>
  <br/>
  <br/>
  It's the coach's choice. Everyone wants to play, of course. My only job is to do my best when I'm out on the court. And that's what I try to do.
  <br/>
  <strong>
   <br/>
   You have a unique speed and set of moves under the basket. Do you work especially on this? Is there a player that you use as a personal example?
  </strong>
  <br/>
  <br/>
  Yes, it's true, I have my own special style. I guess it is a mix of players like Pau Gasol and Dirk Nowitzki. Those are two basketball players that I really like. I like to try and figure out what my competitors will do before they do it. But there's really no one person that I use as an example. I guess I just try to be myself all the time.
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <strong>
   What sort of relations do you have with NBA players Ersan İlyasova and Ömer Aşık?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  Oh, we do talk, of course. But I don't see them very often since we're all very busy. But both of them are doing a great job representing Turkey. Both Ömer and Ersan are in the starting line up of their teams. And they're both getting better and better. No matter if we are on opposing teams playing out there on the courts, it still makes me happy to see people from my own culture doing such a good job.
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <strong>
   How did you make it to this level at such a young age? I'm asking so that you can be an example for other young people.
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  First of all, just as fun as it is to get to this level, it's also a huge responsibility. You are representing not only your name, but your language, your culture and your flag. You're representing your family. Every match that you play is like a gift to you, to be able to show them off in a way. If you are aware of this, then God helps you. Let them place the bar as high as they want. In the end, the NBA is where everyone who plays basketball would love to be. I set my goals the highest I could. I recommend starting off with prayer. Afterwards, hard work is necessary. Skill actually only brings you so far… the rest is hard work. You need to love what you are doing, too. The players in the NBA definitely love their work.
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <strong>
   What's your greatest goal in the NBA?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  I don't see my skills and my success as having just come from me. All of these things are gifts from God. My greatest goal is to go as far as I can, as high as I can and to use this to share my country that I love with the rest of the world, to share our culture, our language, our flag. I want to use the skills given to me on the path towards God. You can't abandon that fight and, if you don't, God won't abandon you.
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <strong>
   Do you have any plans for when your basketball career is over? Mehmet Okur took a position in Utah, Michael Jordan transitioned into baseball and Kerim Abdul Jabbar acted in films.
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  I'd love to be a sports teacher at some point in the future in an African country. Right now, I'd love to get involved in organizing basketball camps and help develop educational and training programs for people. And one day, İnşallah, I'd love to work with Hakan Şükür and organize something like the Turkish Olympiad. There are now Turkish schools in 170 countries throughout the world. It's so important that we see good athletes come to these schools in the US.
 </p>
 <p>
 </p>
 <h2>
  One day, maybe I'll wear the national team uniform
 </h2>
 <p>
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   Do you follow the Turkish Basketball League?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  In the NBA you play around 80 matches a season. And then there are also training sessions and social projects etc. with your teammates. So, there's almost no time left. I try to follow the Turkish league from time to time, but, believe me, it's a problem of time. When I do have any spare time, I try to read things that will soothe and boost my spirits.
  <br/>
  <br/>
  -When it comes to the rumors that have been circulating for the past two years concerning you and the Turkish national basketball team, you've chosen to either remain silent in the face of the negative things said about you, or just answer very quietly. What's the latest on this front? Will we ever see Enes Kanter suit up for the national team? Do you have any messages for Turkish basketball fans?
  <br/>
  <br/>
  As you noted, I've tried to remain either silent or just respectful in the face of some of the things said about me. Sometimes I just cannot believe the things I hear. Over the past two years, the most incredible things have been said about me and all sorts of scenarios have been played out. There's no need to repeat those things now, though; I've mentioned them before in
  <a class="news-detail-tag-link" href="http://web.archive.org/web/20160213071139/http://www.todayszaman.com/index/interview" title="interview, interview news, interview news, interview latest newsies">
   interview
  </a>
  s with other people. But there is one thing I will say and reiterate: I love my people, my country and my flag about a thousand times more than those who criticize me so sharply. I spend my every moment in the NBA reminding myself of how I can better represent my country and so on. No one should think that I'm in pursuit of just money, or that I'm not thinking about Turkey. Anyone who says Turkey is not even at the edge of my mind is in this way right: it's not at the edge of my mind, it's right in the middle of my heart! I want everyone to know that I am working as hard as I can to make our flag respected all over the world.
  <br/>
  <br/>
  I know that was a long answer, but this topic makes me very uncomfortable. I would like everyone in Turkey to know that I hope and pray that I will one day wear the national uniform for my country -- with pride.
 </p>
 <h2>
 </h2>
 <h2>
  An important factor: my high school
 </h2>
 <p>
  <br/>
  <strong>
   How did you wind up choosing Samanyolu College when you were warming up to basketball?
  </strong>
  <br/>
  <br/>
  Well, I was very young, so it was actually my family's choice. But now I understand why they made that decision. Everyone wants their children to get the best education possible. And, as we know, education does not only mean knowing mathematics, science, social sciences and so on. Beyond this, a real education must also prepare you for life. You need to get values from teachers that you can hold as role models. When I look at it this way, I see that Samanyolu College and in fact all schools of the Gülen group offer this. Of course, there are other schools that also give these things, but Samanyolu was my family's choice and I'm so proud to have gone there.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   What sort of student were you?
  </strong>
  <br/>
  <br/>
  It was such a great opportunity for me to be surrounded by so many sincere people. This helped me so much as I headed off onto my journey into the world of basketball during middle school. I used the ethics and morals I learned in school to guide me in the relationships I made outside of school during that period. From this angle, my friends and teachers at school had a huge influence on my social interactions and social circles as I got older.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   How did you get so into basketball when you were also at such a good educational institute? What was the most important factor in this choice?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  What? Are you saying basketball's not a good career? (laughs) Basketball really happened for me incidentally. It was definitely not a planned thing within my family, my school or my friend circles. I guess being so tall, it was kind of something that was destined for me. As I mentioned earlier though, the person that really started me on this journey was the sports teacher at the Van Private Serhat College.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   Did your high school experiences have an effect on the rest of your career?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  Technically, there's no overlapping point between my career now and Samanyolu College. But I can say that for me and other graduates who are advancing in their careers in other areas, the most important thing we all got from our educations was that they built character. After all, you can study a variety of topics and subjects at a lot of different schools. But the only way a student can build character is when the teachers themselves are ethical and have strong characters. I think this is really the greatest advantage offered by Samanyolu College. So really, what I learned from my high school teachers about being a real human and about being humanistic has carried me through these years. Without even being aware of it, I guess I try to copy them and follow in their paths. And this brings about success of course. It brings you to respect your work and form good relations with your teammates. I owe so much to the efforts of those teachers, no matter how small my steps still are within that framework.
 </p>
 <p>
  Some short answers from Enes Kanter
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   Is there anyone you most fear facing up against in the NBA?
  </strong>
  <br/>
  <br/>
  No. Even when players are really good, I still remember they have two arms and two legs, like me.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   Players that stand out as personal examples to you?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  [Dirk] Nowitzki (Dallas), Pau Gasol (Chicago).
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   Which team is your favorite: the Boston Celtics of the 1960s, or the Chicago Bulls of the 1980s?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  The Bulls, with Michael Jordan, Scottie Pippen and Dennis Rodman.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   What is a match you can't forget, and why?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  The first match I played in the NBA against the Los Angeles Lakers. Ever since I was little, I had wanted to play for the Lakers. I picked up 11 rebounds in that match.
  <br/>
  <strong>
   If you could play with any five basketball players from all time, who would they be?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  [Russell] Westbrook, Michael Jordan, Lebron James, Carl Malone and Kerim Abdul Jabbar.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   Who are your closest friends right now?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  Steven Adams and Russell Westbrook.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   Do you encounter any problems with the food here?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  No, not at all. The team makes sure we have access to helal food. I am very sensitive on that front though. I can't just eat anywhere. I always look into whatever restaurant I am going to beforehand. And the team is very respectful of my wishes on that front.
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <strong>
   What about your family, do you see them a lot?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  More online than anywhere else. There's a time difference, so catching up with them can be hard. My father gets up to watch my matches. My mother also watches, but she's kind of sleepy when she does.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   What are your three favorite things about the US?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  One, meeting up with other Turks. Two, teaching Americans here about our culture. Three, the respect people show you here.
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <strong>
   What are your three least favorite things about here then?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  The smells in some restaurants. Not being able to find a place where you can just go get a bowl of soup when you want. The time difference.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   You are one of the top earners on your team. What are you doing with your money?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  I mean, a person's expenditures are pretty clear. I try not to go outside of a certain framework, and I spend the rest on charity work.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   When you're going to sleep at night, what do you think about?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  The state of the Muslim world.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   What do you think looks best on you?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  A dress shirt.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   What about football?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  Hakan Şükürspor!
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   The craziest thing you've ever done?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  To ask the Utah Jazz if I could get traded. Not every player would do this.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   Do people compare you to any one player in particular?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  Sometimes to Luis Suarez, who plays for Barcelona.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   A feeling you'd love to have?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  To play for the Turkish national team somewhere in Europe for the World Championships.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   If you could talk to someone that you wouldn't otherwise ever be able to, who would that be?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  Üstad Bediuzzaman. There's so much I'd love to learn from him.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   What makes you angry?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  When people are apathetic in their jobs.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   The greatest physical pain you've ever experienced?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  When my shoulder was dislocated when I was in Utah.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   Alone in your car, what song do you love to listen to?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  Bana Kırmızı Gülleri Verin.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   And your favorite breakfast?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  Eggs with potatoes and menemen.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   What size shoe do you wear?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  51.5.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   The most recent books you have read?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  “The Road to Character,” “The World's Greatest Short Stories,” “Kırık Testi” and “İbretlik Hatıralar.”
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   How did the US seem to you when you were in Turkey?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  Like it would be very hard to get there. But after you get here, you see it's a land of freedom. But there are many rules and laws.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   The toughest thing for you about NBA matches?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  Plane trips and time differences.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   When do we get to see you on the national team?
  </strong>
  <br/>
  <br/>
  Well, I'm ready, as I always say. I guess the political atmosphere needs to shift, and professionalism needs to come to the federation.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   Player Hidayet Türkoğlu shared a tweet saying that rather than voting for Turkish players for the NBA All-Star Game, people should vote for Nikola Vucevic from Montenegro. What did you think of that?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  I love Hidayet. After everything that's happened in Turkey, he's just bowed his head to the powers in charge. Last year I invited him to a match against Orlando we were playing. It was in Miami. He said that he couldn't come.
 </p>
 <p>
  You are sometimes much criticized for your tweets about events in Turkey.
 </p>
 <p>
  I follow what's going, as all Turkish citizens do. I don't want to remain silent in the face of the negative things that occur. I prefer to stand by the innocent and against the tyrants.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   How do people's reactions to you effect you?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  When I'm on the court, all I think about is my performance. If my performances were affected by reactions against me, I'd stop saying things.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   What does your family think about your close following of events in Turkey?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  They don't want me to take it too far. But they don't understand, I feel like I have a volcano inside me. It might explode.
 </p>
 <p>
  <strong>
   What has saddened you the most about recent events in Turkey?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  That such a wonderful country has lost such great friends. And that Islam is being so incorrectly shared and presented by some unfortunate factions in our country.
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <strong>
   Is there any period in the past about which you are regretful?
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  When Satan reminds you of the past, you tell him about the future. Everyone can make mistakes. The best of those who have made errors in the past are those who forswear and repent those errors now.
 </p>
</div>


Kaynak: [www.aksiyon.com.tr](http://www.aksiyon.com.tr/for-english/nba-s-kanter-i-hope-to-don-turkish-national-jersey-again_553741), [web.archive.org (arşiv bağlantısı)](http://web.archive.org/web/20160213071139/http://www.aksiyon.com.tr/for-english/nba-s-kanter-i-hope-to-don-turkish-national-jersey-again_553741)
