# An olive tree in exile

*Bünyamin Köseli 2016.02.16*

<div class="pNewsDetailMainContent ctx_content" itemprop="articleBody">
 <p>
  <strong>
   Dear reader, you learned about me last week. There was a lot of fuss over my age. I was alleged to be 945 years old. Of course, it is not a coincidence that my personal story started in 1071, the very date of the conquest of Anatolia. There was definitely a certain message being conveyed with that. Top officials held a ceremony befitting the very spirit of 1071 and replanted me. Yes, I am that tree that was uprooted from its homeland and taken to miles away to Expo 2016 Park in
   <a class="news-detail-tag-link" href="http://web.archive.org/web/20160218092531/http://www.todayszaman.com/index/antalya" title="Antalya, Antalya news, antalya news, antalya latest newsies">
    Antalya
   </a>
   last week.
  </strong>
 </p>
 <p>
  Can you remember, dear reader, that what happened to me happened to a centennial tree in Spain years ago. They uprooted that tree and took it to France. Its story, however, aroused concern and widespread protests all across Spain. Nature preservation associations raised hue and cries. No one except a handful of sensible people cared about my displacement. Soon, I will be forgotten; I know it. Why do I tell this to you now? I just want to get some relief from the trauma I have suffered.
 </p>
 <p>
  I think my wounds will be tended to if I share my trials and tribulations with you. It really hurt while they carried me away. A significant part of my roots were left in the town of Bademli in İzmir. My roots were cracked and torn. Moreover, they cut off my branches so that I could be transported easily. Yet, I was the most reputed tree in my original site. I had a reputation in İzmir, Ödemiş and the surrounding areas. People from neighboring villages and towns would come to visit me and they would show respect due to my age.
  <br>
   <br>
    But lately, I've been hearing shocking and worrisome news. I was transfixed to learn that the town of Hasankeyf in southeastern Turkey on the Tigris River, a settlement with a history dating back to 12,000 years ago, would be sacrificed for a dam that would have a life of only 60 years. Likewise, the news that ordinary marble normally used for kitchen decoration was employed for restoration work in Aspendos, an ancient city near Antalya, was equally shocking. I still remember a historic port unearthed in İstanbul, dating back to 8,500 years ago, which was belittled by an infamous politician as consisting of "some pottery.”
   </br>
  </br>
 </p>
 <p>
  And there is the tragic story of what recently happened to my peers in Yırca, a village in western Turkey. There were centuries-old trees among them. They uprooted thousands of them with construction machinery overnight. As I later learned, they didn't wait for a court decision. Yet, the constitution drafted by Solon in 600 B.C. afforded special protection to
  <a class="news-detail-tag-link" href="http://web.archive.org/web/20160218092531/http://www.todayszaman.com/index/olive-tree" title="olive tree, olive tree news, olive tree news, olive tree latest newsies">
   olive tree
  </a>
  s, severely punishing people who hurt them.
 </p>
 <p>
  Speaking of Ancient Greece, I should tell you about the history of olive trees in this region. In the early ages, I was declared to be "the gift that is most beneficial to humanity." Kings usually used me in their symbols both in Ancient Greece and Rome. I decorated coins. All holy books, including the Holy Quran, praise me. My branch was what represented the end of the flood during the time of the Prophet Noah. Mary Magdalene got my oil inside her copper churn. When the Persians invaded Athens, they set me on fire, but I flourished again from my ashes. Therefore, people would refer to me as the immortal tree. I had the honor of being at the table of the Prophet Muhammad.
 </p>
 <p>
  I wish I had had the chance to conceal my age so that I wouldn't have been moved from my homeland. You know, for the elderly, one's hometown is like a holy land. They would like to spend their last days in their homeland and want to be buried there when they die. Once, two youngsters who had a taste for cinema had a lengthy conversation in my shade before I was removed. One youngster was enthusiastically talking about a movie he had recently watched: "British soldiers raided an Irish village and torched an old woman's house. The old woman didn't want to leave the village despite her son's behest, but cleaned the coop in the farm and decided to live there. She repeatedly said she wouldn't leave the village."
 </p>
 <p>
  When they cut off my roots and branches and tied me to a truck with ropes, I was thinking about that old Irish woman. Like that woman, I would never have left my hometown if they hadn't forcibly severed me from this land. I had been feeding on the same soil for 1,000 years. Every morning, the sun would rise from behind the same hill and place its rays on my leaves. I knew from which direction the wind would blow and I knew the winter and summer. I befriended the migratory birds which would take a break on my branches. It is now impossible for them to come and find me.
 </p>
 <p>
  What is more shocking is that there is the possibility that I might not accommodate myself to my new site. I might not be able to develop roots and I may die. Relocating a tree is synonymous with cutting it down. What happened to me is like an unnecessary medical operation and every operation has its risks. I am living with these risks and whether I will come into leaf is unknown.
 </p>
</div>


Kaynak: [www.aksiyon.com.tr](http://www.aksiyon.com.tr/for-english/an-olive-tree-in-exile_553903), [web.archive.org (arşiv bağlantısı)](http://web.archive.org/web/20160218092531/http://www.aksiyon.com.tr/for-english/an-olive-tree-in-exile_553903)
